Headline: [Charania] BREAKING: Trae Young intends to sign a four-year, approximately $212 million deal to stay with the Washington Wizards, with a player option in Year 4, sources tell ESPN. The four-time NBA All-Star declined his $49M player option for a long-term commitment ahead of free agency. 
Post:  [Charania] BREAKING: Trae Young intends to sign a four-year, approximately $212 million deal to stay with the Washington Wizards, with a player option in Year 4, sources tell ESPN. The four-time NBA All-Star declined his $49M player option for a long-term commitment ahead of free agency.

The Wizards and Young’s representatives, CAA’s Co-Head of Basketball Aaron Mintz, agents Ray Young, Andrew Morrison and Co-Head of Basketball Austin Brown, land on a deal that will be less than the maximum for Young with Washington, but equal to the max he could have signed elsewhere.

Young – who wanted a trade to one team only, the Wizards, in January – stamps his desire to be in D.C. and elevate the team’s rising young core. 


Headline: THE OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER HAVE BEEN ELIMINATED FROM 2026 NBA CHAMPIONSHIP CONTENTION 
Post:  After the loss in game 7 against the San Antonio Spurs, the Oklahoma City Thunder are eliminated from 2026 NBA Championship contention

https://www.espn.com/nba/boxscore/_/gameId/401873203

Fade 'em 


Comments: After two days this post has:

    5.2M views, 63% from USA, 7.5% from Canada, 5.4% from Austrilia, 24% from other

    71K upvotes with 95% ratio

    101 awards

Many thanks to those redditors who gave this post awards

Comment:  Champagnie was Undrafted out of college and he is playing like 20 minutes a game in the WCF making league minimum money. That’s fucking crazy. 

Comment: perhaps we shouldnt be calling teams a dynasty after 1 chip lol 

Comment: I had high expectations but Mamdani has honestly blown me away even still. This guy has all the fucking charisma in the world. Get him in the senate after his mayorship is up. 


Comment:  I like the dress shirt tie under the Jersey too, he's basically using the jersey as a suit vest. Great pick with the Hart jersey too, it tracks that he'd be Mamdani's pick. 

Comment:  Step 1: Elect Democratic Socialist

Step 2a–2z: Boring good governance stuff that makes lives better for people, which conservatives don't care about

Step 3: Win championship for first time in decades

…

Guys, I think Talarico needs to focus his campaign on Cowboys fans. 

Comment: Going from Eric Adams to a mayor that is actually cool is actually crazier than the Knicks winning. 

Post: [Noh] My salary model has Trae Young at $115.1 million in value over the next four years, assuming an average of 70 games played / 34 mpg. That makes his $212 million contract underwater by $97 million. (link to model in post) 

Comment: I’m going to zag here and say it saves a nice salary spot for a team that wasn’t going to get any free agents over the next 3 seasons. Whether they get to use it is another story, but people often underrate how valuable it is having a single player that can soak up a salary slot that high. 

Comment:  The only reason it’s not a terrible terrible overpay is because they really don’t have to pay anyone for the next few years 

    Carrington wont demand much on his rookie extension 

    Sarr isn’t due for an extension for another year and won’t be worth a max 

    AJ /Peterson won’t be due for an extension by the team this deal is over 

    Kyshawn same as Sarr 

    Tre Johnson won’t be due an extension for another two years 


Comment: Do you think the NBA teams salary model is better, or this guys? 

Comment: Wizards finally got off the Beal contract 3 years ago, to now have to find a way to get off the Trae contract 

Comment: I actually like this model because it confirms all my biases lmao. It has Brunson as being worth 53 million, Cade only being worth 46 million, and Haliburton being worth only 31 million

Comment:  I actually think Trae Young is kind of underrated by reddit/analytics people. Dude’s crazy talented and can really work in the right environment.

But 53 million per and a player option is crazy at his age and coming off his last season. 

Comment: If his model includes players on rookie scale contracts it's probably completely fucked  Edit: just want to clarify I don't think the model is thaaaaat off, but I do think it's leaning pretty hard because of the data it looks at.


Headline: [Windhorst] The Boston Celtics have firmly put Jaylen Brown on the table and are going all-in on acquiring Giannis Antetokounmpo. 
Post:  Brian Windhorst just said this on “Get Up!” on ESPN.

Full clip here: https://streamable.com/qay0au

More from Windhorst here: https://www.threads.com/@windhorstespn

The Boston Celtics have firmly put Jaylen Brown on the table and are going all-in on acquiring Giannis Antetokounmpo.

He also said this is the first time in the history of the Brown-Tatum pairing that they’ve legitimately given thought to the idea of breaking them apart. 

Comment: What do you think guys is the right package for Giannis?

Ofc Giannis > Brown as a player.

But Brown is in his prime too. And just had a great season.

What Celtics need to put as an add ons to sweeten the deal?

Do they have good draft assets? Or they will add another young player? (I am not sure if they have who are good enough as a sweetener) 


Comment:  Man, I just don’t have a good feeling about this as a Celtics fan

You know how some trades you’re happy and excited about, like you want them to happen and feel good when they do

I both feel really strange about this one and have a feeling it’s not gonna work out for us if it happens


Headline: [Fischer] Milwaukee’s decision makers are split and currently deciding between Boston’s package for Giannis Antetokounmpo (Brown, Gonzalez, limited draft capital) and Miami’s (Herro, Ware, Jaquez, multiple first-round picks). 
Post:  Source: https://marcstein.substack.com/p/the-giannis-antetokounmpo-trade-latest-b5f

A split faction of Milwaukee’s decision makers, sources say, is deciding between Boston’s package for Giannis Antetokounmpo built around Jaylen Brown — where the Bucks also hold particular Hugo Gonzales interest, as The Stein Line reported last night — plus limited draft capital, compared to Miami’s offer of younger pieces — featuring Tyler Herro, Kel’el Ware, Jaime Jaquez — and multiple first-round picks.

The established MVP candidate versus greater overall value is what this whole saga has boiled down to one day before the NBA Draft. 



Comment:  Crazy mismanagement by the Bucks if they pass on Boston's offer if that's actually the offer Edit: I see people mentioning that the Bucks might just keep JB instead of flipping him to a 3rd team. If that happens, that's even crazier mismanagement 

Comment:  Miami’s package essentially guts their team. Who else is left? Powell. Wiggins. Davion Mitchell. So it’s Mitchell/Powell/Wiggins/Giannis/Bam as the starters and then zero bench. 

Comment:  You let brown play out next year where you don’t own your own first round pick, then flip him in the summer of 27 where is contract becomes a bit more palatable.

Picks from a team you’re sending Giannis to doesn’t move the needle. Take the Boston deal 10/10 

Comment:  How many times has Miami been in the lottery the last 25 years? The last time they “tanked” was 2008. Dunno if I want a bunch of late FRPs for Giannis. Ware could be good but he, Herro and Jacquez could be fool’s gold. Everybody plays better in Miami.

Both deals kinda suck. But atleast you know Jaylen Brown and Queta can carry you to an EC playoff run. Plus there’s the flexibility of moving him again to Portland, getting all their picks back. 


Headline: [Charania] Restricted free agent Mohamed Diawara intends to sign a multiyear, $10-plus million deal to return to the New York Knicks, sources tell ESPN. Diawara -- the No. 51 pick in last year's NBA draft -- was part of the champion Knicks after spending the season on a standard contract. 
Post:  [Charania] Restricted free agent Mohamed Diawara intends to sign a multiyear, $10-plus million deal to return to the New York Knicks, sources tell ESPN. Diawara -- the No. 51 pick in last year's NBA draft -- was part of the champion Knicks after spending the season on a standard contract.

https://www.espn.com/contributor/shams-charania/1a10d37ccad5d 

Comment:

Mo Diawara:

21 years old

6'9 with 7'4 wingspan

7.5 3PA per 36 at 37%

3 assists per 36 as an off-ball wing who almost never had a play called for him

Awesome that we're bringing him back. I'd rather have him than our #24 pick


Comment: Mo will be a player that every ball knower will be like "Damn, the Knicks really got this guy for how much?" give it some time and you'll see. 


Headline: Bill Russell was the first Black MVP, All-NBA first teamer, head coach and champion coach, and led the NBA's first all-Black starting lineup to a 12-0 record. Yet he declined being the first Black Hall of Famer, believing earlier Black pioneers who didn't get a chance in the pros deserved the honor 
Post:  He was also the joint-first Black NCAA champion in 1955.

Russell declined to attend his initial Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame induction ceremony in 1975. The Boston Celtics legend refused to be the first Black player inducted, believing that others who came before him deserved the honor first.  

The first black player enshrined instead was Charles Cooper https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Cooper_(basketball) (at the behest of Russell), who helped his team (the New York Rens) win 88 straight games in the 1930s, a record that has never been matched by a professional basketball team. Technically he did play professionally, but he wasn’t able to play in any professional league with white players, or to be a teammate of one.

They also won the 1939 World Basketball Championship, which was probably the best way that the best basketball team in the world was determined at that time, given that it included black teams like the Renaissance and the Globetrotters.

Notably, Russell also declined to get his jersey retired in front of fans in Boston, as he felt the most dominant dynasty in the sport's history was not appreciated because they had Black players.

This feeling was exacerbated by his own fans very literally breaking into his house and shitting on his bed. When he retired suddenly in the summer of 1969 after his 11th ring, he all but cut ties with the organization for years.

On the court, Russell won 55 straight games and two national championships at a program that had not previously been a powerhouse, and 11 NBA championships in 13 years. From 1952-1984, Russell won 11 championships, and no other player won more than three, excluding seasons where those players were on Bill Russell's team. 

Comment: For the record, absolutely no one knew Cooper as Charles Cooper outside of his own family, he went by Tarzan Cooper his entire adult life. The Rens also 100% were "the pros," it was a big controversy within black basketball in the early 20s when they turned fully professional, for about seven years they were widely considered the best team in the world regardless of race, they played against the best white teams in the would 203 times including 84 times when he was on the team, and prior to the Great Depression Cooper and two of his teammates were earning more when taking into account inflation than any NBA player was during the first three or four years of the NBA's existence. 

Comment: I've been trying to chase down his autobiography Second Wind since covid

The online copies out there are super expensive 

Supposedly it is quite honest maybe too honest about what he faced during the 60s 

Comment:  If you say he’s the GOAT people will say he played in a league with 8 teams, with plumbers and milkmen. What a fucking absolutely offensive way to break down Bill Russell’s career. He was so much more than that.

Then if you argue for Jordan as GOAT, the rings argument eventually comes up, usually with LeBron. Then all of a sudden Bill Russell is the greatest player ever.

Because he kind of is.

NBA discourse is the absolute worse lol 

Comment: He's always been the real GOAT in my eyes. To be a civil rights leader, while dealing with harrassment and threats from his own fanbase, and still playing at such an elite level is something that most players outside of his era can never imagine.
19

Comment:  another fun fact: in 1956, Bill Russell qualified for the Olympic High jump. He was ranked #2 in the US and #7 in the world, setting the University of San Francisco school record. Interestingly, its STILL the school record -- despite the fact that this was BEFORE the Forsbury Flop.

Bill Russell was crazy athletic and his vertical could stand up to anyone's jump in any era 

Headline: [Highlight] Arena erupts in boos as The President is shown on the jumbotron 


Headline: During this year's playoffs, Victor Wembanyama recorded 77 defensive stops. No player has recorded more in a single playoff run since the 2010-11 season (which is how far back full data goes). Wembanyama now holds the regular season (2023-24) and postseason (2026) records. 

Post:  During this year's playoffs, Victor Wembanyama recorded 77 defensive stops. No player has recorded more in a single playoff run since the 2010-11 season (which is how far back full data goes). Wembanyama now holds the regular season (2023-24) and postseason (2026) records

Defensive Stops = offensive fouls drawn + charges drawn + steals + blocks recovered by the defense

https://www.basketball-reference.com/players/w/wembavi01.html 


Comment: 77 defensive stops in a single playoff run is absurd. what makes it wild is defensive stops already undercounts his impact — doesn't capture the shots guys don't even attempt because he's in the paint. the gravity he generates on defense is like a stretch five on offense, just in reverse. 

Comment: Im not about to even blink an eye at a "record" that accounts for less than a quarter of the NBAs history and doesnt include any if the years when the truly dominant defensive centers of the league played . 

Comment: Best defender in the world by a long shot. No matter how bad of an offensive game he plays, he will always be a positive on the court with that defense. Hes gonna be unstoppable when he’s like 26/27/28 

Headline: [Chiang] Jaylen Brown is now on the table for Antetokounmpo. The Heat are forced to improve their offer to get a deal done, though sources say they don't want to gut the team and draft capital. Sources have also indicated that Antetokounmpo would likely make a long-term commitment to the Celtics. 
Post: 

    While three-time All-Star center Bam Adebayo is the only Heat player truly off the table in Antetokounmpo trade discussions, the Heat doesn’t want to gut its team and draft capital in a deal.

    But with Brown reportedly now on the table in trade discussions for Antetokounmpo, the Heat could be forced to improve its offer if it’s going to win the Giannis sweepstakes.

    While league sources have indicated that Antetokounmpo has interest in being dealt to the Heat, he also reportedly would likely make a long-term commitment to the Celtics.


Comment:  mean I don't really understand how Boston was ever going to do the trade without Brown's salary so idk how this was ever not the path lol 

Comment: As a neutral, Miami should not gut their roster for Giannis. Yeah hes great, but hes declining, hes expensive (maybe you will have to give roster spots to his family members, and stuff) and he will be injured a lot of times.


Headline: [7PM in Brooklyn with Carmelo Anthony] AJ Dybantsa: "I think both teams, Utah and Washington, they have a deep enough roster that if they add me, that we can automatically be a playoff team. And that rookie year, obviously." 
Post:  AJ Dybantsa while on 7PM in Brooklyn with Carmelo Anthony:

    "I think both teams, Utah and Washington, they have a deep enough roster that if they add me, that we can automatically be a playoff team. And that rookie year, obviously."

    "I've been number one my whole life. So I kind of just grew up in the spotlight. So I just been hooping. Expectations are going to be on me, but I mean, I can mess up a couple times, but I'm going to just keep going, I'm going to keep hooping."

    "My rate of improvement throughout the season is actually like ridiculous. Like the first game, if you watch my first game reads versus my last game reads, it's night and day, especially the film I'm watching. I was only 35 games, so that's half a season. So imagine if you give me 82 games to just watch film and I have a coach dedicated to watch film with me, unlimited gym access. Yeah, like, you know, those are going to be the smaller wins for me. Like in the beginning of the season, okay, you're averaging 15, five and five. At the end of the season, you're averaging 26 and seven. You know, it's just, those are small wins for me."

    "I have two immigrant, my mom's from Jamaica, my dad's from Congo. Both came here and was just working to raise three kids. So I think it was kind of inherited in us. All three of them, both my sisters work hard too, so it's kind of just in us to work hard."


Comment: I think none of us have any idea what is going to happen next season. There are so many variables even before bigger trades (might) go down, but I think both Washington and Utah had the potential to be exciting this season playing their best lineups even without their top-2 picks.

Headline:[Fischer] While the reigning champion New York Knicks assess their trade options for picks No. 24 and 31 in this week’s NBA Draft, sources say reserve guard Jose Alvarado has agreed to move the decision date on his $4.5 million player option for 2026-27 from tomorrow, June 22, back to June 26. 
Post:

[Jake Fischer] While the reigning champion New York Knicks assess their trade options for picks No. 24 and 31 in this week’s NBA Draft, sources say reserve guard Jose Alvarado has agreed to move the decision date on his $4.5 million player option for 2026-27 from tomorrow, June 22, back to June 26.

Link to Jake Fischer’s latest substack post: https://open.substack.com/pub/marcstein/p/lots-of-the-latest-nba-draft-chatter?utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=web
520


Comment: Jose really went from “that annoying pest on the Pels” to “savvy vet on the reigning champ Knicks” in like two years, wild timeline 😂. Feels like they are cooking some kind of draft night move and just needed the flexibility, Leon got like 12 different cap spreadsheets open right now. 


HEadline: Rewatching Game 7 of the 2016 Finals is crazy. There is no flailing, head snapping, falling down after every shot, jumping sideways, etc. They’re playing actually basketball down the stretch
Post: I can only today. On LeBron’s block Iggy would probably kick his legs out backward and end up in the front row now Silver really has ruined this great game

Comment:  I wouldn’t say that this Finals “wasn’t real basketball”. It was. We saw great defense, and some high level offense to get around that D. We also saw some poor offense, especially down the stretch of games.

But players more than ever play to the refs, and the refs are not doing a good enough job of recognizing it. The reffing system needs to be revolutionized.

It’s definitely time for another rule change to tackle the foul baiting . And one they enforce, not another “we’re gonna call flops for two weeks and then never again”. 